ClimateSet is an initiative aimed at providing a comprehensive and accessible dataset for the intersection of climate science and machine learning (ML). It is a dataset containing inputs and outputs from 36 different climate models, addressing a crucial need in the ML community to support climate scientists in various tasks such as climate model emulation, downscaling, and prediction.
 
The dataset is carefully curated from the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project Phase 6 (CMIP6) and Input Datasets for Model Intercomparison Projects (Input4MIPs). CMIP6 serves as the backbone of ClimateSet, offering climate model outputs from various sources. Input4MIPs, on the other hand, collect future emission trajectories of climate forcing agents, crucial for predicting climate model responses. The resulting core dataset encompasses 36 climate models, including the main greenhouse gases, aerosols, and aerosol precursor emission inputs for five different scenarios.
 
ClimateSet's significance lies in its ability to address two key objectives: providing sufficient training data for large-scale ML models and capturing the projection uncertainty across different climate models. The need for such a dataset arises from the inherent challenges in climate-related tasks, including high dimensionality, low sample size, and distribution shifts within the data. ClimateSet tackles these challenges by offering a consistent and sizable dataset, paving the way for ML models to contribute meaningfully to climate-related modeling tasks.
 
To facilitate the use of ClimateSet, a modular dataset pipeline is introduced, allowing users to retrieve and preprocess climate model data for ML tasks. The document details the preprocessing steps, addressing inconsistencies across different datasets and climate models. The preprocessor, built modularly, checks for corrupt files, variable naming, units, temporal and spatial resolution, and structure. It ensures that the data is ready for use in ML applications by syncing time-axis, calendars, and height levels, and resolving other relevant issues.
 
Users can access ClimateSet through the provided website (link), where both raw and processed data are available. The dataset can be extended by users who desire additional scenarios, climate forcers, or other variables, provided the requested data is available on the Earth System Grid Federation (ESGF) server. The preprocessing of ClimateSet can also be accelerated using multi-thread functions and other optimizations.
 
The heart of ClimateSet's utility is demonstrated through a benchmarking setup, showcasing its application in climate emulation tasks. ML models, including Convolutional long short-term memory (ConvLSTM), U-Net, and ClimaX, are trained and evaluated on the dataset. The results reveal insights into model performance across different climate models and scenarios, emphasising the importance of evaluating ML models on a set of climate models rather than just one.
 
ClimateSet is a valuable resource that bridges the gap between climate science and ML. It provides a consistent, multi-climate-model dataset along with tools for easy access and preprocessing. Researchers and policymakers can leverage ClimateSet to enhance ML models' performance, contribute to climate-related tasks at scale, and ultimately make meaningful strides in climate policy making.
